README.md, before:

﻿# Nightmare Spark
A mod for Hollow Knight.


Adds a new charm that causes dashing to leave behind a trail of Nightmare Flame, includes several charm synergies.


Return to the Nightmare Lantern upon completion of either ending to the Grimm Troupe questline to recieve your reward!
Charm can also be acquired with Debug Mods "Give All Charms" button/keybind, by starting a new Godseeker save, or by editing the local save settings for the save.


* Flukenest: Replaces the fluke spell with a burst of 3 firebats that deal considerable damage. Damage is buffed by Shamans Stone.
* Flukenest + Defenders Crest: Fires a single massive, slow-moving firebat that causes a huge explosion on impact.  Damage is not effected by shamans stone
* Dash Master: Decreases the cooldown time for the flame trail.
* Spell Twister: Adds a rain of fireballs at the start of the dive spell. Fireball count and damage scale with spell level, 5 fireballs at level 1 and 7 at level 2.
* Shape of Unn: The Knight becomes a bat and can fly around untill the focus finishes. Speed of the bat and range scales with deep focus & quick focus. 
* Carefree Melody: Activating Carefree's shield will spawn a ring of grimm spikes that eject outward from the spot the shield procced dealing damage.
* Carefree Melody + Thorns of Agony: Activating Carefree's shield wills spawn a ring of nightmare spikes that eject outwards from the spot the shield procced dealing extra damage.
* Grimmchild: Increase Grimmchild enemy detection range by 50%. Every 3rd shot Grimmchild fires will have 1 of 3 effects based on distance from it's target.
* 1. At close range Grimmchild will fire a larger fireball that will explode into a pillar of fire on impact.
* 2. At medium range Grimmchild will fire 4 extra fireballs for a total of 5 in a volley of 3 then 2.
* 3. At long range Grimmchild will eject a spiral of fireballs.
* Sprint Master: Using Crystal Dash will instead fire out a grimmkin novice and leaving the Knight with full movement, once it hits terrain it will place a torch and the torch on the Knight's   
back will light up, using the ability again will warp the Knight to the torch. Using it before it reaches a wall will warp the Knight early.

!KNOWN ISSUES! (These are unlikely to be fixed)
- Various audio effects are NOT effected by the in-game volume sliders, their volumes have been drastically lowered to account for this.
- The charm will NOT spawn into the world in saves created before the mod was installed, only in new saves. Use debug mod or edit the local save settings to get around this.
- Grimmchild's pillar synergy will sometimes not proc on the third hit if grimmchild is too close to the target, however the next hit will spawn the fire pillar properly.
- Warping to a grimmkin torch as the Knight starts swimming will cause it to swim in mid-air.
- Big bat inexplicably may damage the player. (Possibly fixed but I've thought that before)
- The Shape of Unn synergy will sometimes cancel other audio or music.
- Entering a boss fight, that has a "roar" effect that stuns the Knight, while using the Shape of Unn synergy will trap the player as a bat until they focus again or take damage.

Hollow Knight Modding Discord server: https://discord.gg/VDsg3HmWuB  

Mod by RiverRobot#7826 (Discord), feel free to DM or ping me in the modding server for bug reports or balance suggestions, they're greatly appreciated!  

Idea and charm sprite by user EchoKnight   
Shape of Grimm idea by user Ender Onryo  

Thanks to Mulhima#2695 and Dandy#8904 for assisting with the creation of this mod!  
 
Much credit and appreciation to the various mods whose code was borrowed and modified to make this (Transcendence, MoreHealing, Boss Abilities, and Child of Light) and the modding community as a whole  


Thanks to the playtesters:  
DwarfWoot  
Croissant  
Link459  
Godfriend  
RocketFire20  

Dependencies:  
Satchel   
SFCore  
ItemChanger

Commit message:

Fixed various bugs, updated the ReadMe

README.md, after:

﻿# Nightmare Spark
A mod for Hollow Knight.


Adds a new charm that causes dashing to leave behind a trail of Nightmare Flame, includes several charm synergies.


Return to the Nightmare Lantern upon completion of either ending to the Grimm Troupe questline to recieve your reward!
Charm can also be acquired with Debug Mods "Give All Charms" button/keybind, by starting a new Godseeker save, or by editing the local save settings for the save.


* Flukenest: Replaces the fluke spell with a burst of 3 firebats that deal considerable damage. Damage is buffed by Shamans Stone.
* Flukenest + Defenders Crest: Fires a single massive, slow-moving firebat that causes a huge explosion on impact.  Damage is not effected by shamans stone
* Dash Master: Decreases the cooldown time for the flame trail.
* Spell Twister: Adds a rain of fireballs at the start of the dive spell. Fireball count and damage scale with spell level, 5 fireballs at level 1 and 7 at level 2.
* Shape of Unn: The Knight becomes a bat and can fly around untill the focus finishes. Speed of the bat and range scales with deep focus & quick focus. 
* Carefree Melody: Activating Carefree's shield will spawn a ring of grimm spikes that eject outward from the spot the shield procced dealing damage.
* Carefree Melody + Thorns of Agony: Activating Carefree's shield wills spawn a ring of nightmare spikes that eject outwards from the spot the shield procced dealing extra damage.
* Grimmchild: Increase Grimmchild enemy detection range by 50%. Every 3rd shot Grimmchild fires will have 1 of 3 effects based on distance from it's target.
* 1. At close range Grimmchild will fire a larger fireball that will explode into a pillar of fire on impact.
* 2. At medium range Grimmchild will fire 4 extra fireballs for a total of 5 in a volley of 3 then 2.
* 3. At long range Grimmchild will eject a spiral of fireballs.
* Sprint Master: Using Crystal Dash will instead fire out a grimmkin novice, leaving the Knight with full movement, once it hits terrain it will leave behind a torch, and the smaller torch on the Knight's   
back will ignite, using the ability again will warp the Knight to the torch. Using it before it reaches a wall will warp the Knight early.

!KNOWN ISSUES! (These are unlikely to be fixed)
- Various audio effects are NOT effected by the in-game volume sliders, their volumes have been drastically lowered to account for this.
- Grimmchild's pillar synergy will sometimes not proc on the third hit if grimmchild is too close to the target, however the next hit will spawn the fire pillar properly.
- Warping to a grimmkin torch as the Knight starts swimming will cause it to swim in mid-air.
- The Shape of Unn synergy will sometimes cancel other audio or music.
- The Shape of Unn synergy will be stuttery when at the edge of the limit.

Hollow Knight Modding Discord server: https://discord.gg/VDsg3HmWuB  

Mod by RiverRobot#7826 (Discord), feel free to DM or ping me in the modding server for bug reports or balance suggestions, they're greatly appreciated!  

Idea and charm sprite by user EchoKnight   
Shape of Grimm idea by user Ender Onryo  

Thanks to Mulhima#2695 and Dandy#8904 for assisting with the creation of this mod!  
 
Much credit and appreciation to the various mods whose code was borrowed and modified to make this (Transcendence, MoreHealing, Boss Abilities, and Child of Light) and the modding community as a whole  


Thanks to the playtesters:  
DwarfWoot  
Croissant  
Link459  
Godfriend  
RocketFire20  

Dependencies:  
Satchel   
SFCore  
ItemChanger
